README.md, before:

# Biology 208 tutorial

## Introduction
Using R is an important skill that Bucknell biology professors are beginning to incorporate in their courses. While R is typically touted as a "better way to make graphs," there are many benefits to learning R, including being able to easily prepare, maniuplate, run analyses for, and visualize many different types of data. 

## How to access and use this tutorial
Within this github repository (folder) you will need to download several documents. This is most easily done by clicking the green "Clone or Download Button" on the repo's main page. Click "Download ZIP". The folder should now be in your downloads folder and should be unzipped and moved to a known location such as your desktop.

Open this folder and then open the "Biol_208_Tutorial.Rmd" file. This first document is the R markdown which is the tutorial itself, and features introductory material, codes, and comments throughout. Once your R markdown file is open, go to the "Files" tab in the bottom right quadrant of Rstudio. Click the "More" button and select "Set as Working Directory." At this point you should confirm that within this folder (in RStudio) there is an excel document labelled "BIO208_Demog_Practice.xlsx." This document contains Demography Data from previous 208 courses that will be used later in the R tutorial.


## Working through the document

We recommend working through the document one code chunk at a time, instead of running the entire document. Additionally, for larger code chunks we suggest running one line of code at a time to determine what its direct output is. You can do this by highlighting the code you wish to run and then hitting command+enter or by selecting the drop down option on the "Run" button and selecting "Run Selected Line(s)." However, some lines you may have to run together to ensure they function properly- these will be noted through out. 

For additional help and resources scroll to the bottom of the R Markdown document where you will find a troubleshooting section, other resources, and acknowledgments that may be useful to you!

Commit message:

Updating to clarify that there are 3 parts

README.md, after:

# Biology 208 tutorial

## Introduction
Using R is an important skill that Bucknell biology professors are beginning to incorporate in their courses. While R is typically touted as a "better way to make graphs," there are many benefits to learning R, including being able to easily prepare, maniuplate, run analyses for, and visualize many different types of data. 

## How to access and use this tutorial
Within this github repository (folder) you will need to download several documents. This is most easily done by clicking the green "Clone or Download Button" on the repo's main page. Click "Download ZIP". The folder should now be in your downloads folder and should be unzipped and moved to a known location such as your desktop.

When you open this folder you will find many different .Rmd files. This tutorial is split up into three parts, and each part has its own Rmd file to ease your walkthrough of specific packages and skills in R. We suggest starting with Part I, "Biol_208_Tutorial_PartI.Rmd" and progressing through the next two parts ("Biol_208_Tutorial_PartII.Rmd" and ""Biol_208_Tutorial_PartIII.Rmd") at your own speed. Part I begins with a simple review of R skills including working with a preloaded data set, visualizations using ggplot2 and hypothesis generation. Parts II and III deal with specific 208 skills, Shannon diversity indices and survivorship curves.   

To open your file, simply click on the Rmd file of your choice. Once your R markdown file is open, go to the "Files" tab in the bottom right quadrant of Rstudio. Click the "More" button and select "Set as Working Directory." At this point you should confirm that within this folder (in RStudio) there is an excel document labeled "BIO208_Demog_Practice.xlsx." This document contains Demography Data from previous 208 courses that will be used in Part III of this R tutorial.


## Working through the document

We recommend working through each document one code chunk at a time, instead of running the entire document. Additionally, for larger code chunks we suggest running one line of code at a time to determine what its direct output is. You can do this by highlighting the code you wish to run and then hitting command+enter or by selecting the drop down option on the "Run" button and selecting "Run Selected Line(s)." However, some lines you may have to run together to ensure they function properly- these will be noted through out. 

For additional help and resources scroll to the bottom of the R Markdown document where you will find a troubleshooting section and other resources!
